Welcome back.
In a previous video we discussed about the challenges with microservice architecture.
In this video we would introduce you to spring  cloud  and we'd talk about various components under
the umbrella of spring cloud which help us to provide solutions to the challenges we discussed.
Let's get started.
If you go to the home page of spring cloud which is cloud.spring.io it says spring cloud provides tools
to quickly build some of the common patterns in distributed systems to the typical problems which are
present for distributed systems in the cloud spring cloud provides a range of solutions.
The most important thing that you need to understand is spring cloud is not really one project as such.
There are a wide variety of projects under the umbrella of spring cloud on the  spring cloud homepage.
If you scroll down further you'll be able to see huge variety of projects which are related to spring
cloud.
One of the important projects in spring cloud is spring cloud Netflix.
Netflix was one of the organizations which started playing around with the microservices
architecture very early.
There are a wide range of components that Netflix has Open-Source under the project spring Cloud Netflix
later in this course.
We'd be talking about a couple of them as well.
Eureka Hystrix and so on other than spring cloud Netflix.
There are a wide range of projects under the umbrella of spring cloud.
Some of them are spring cloud config which is to provide a centralized configuration management
spring cloud bus.
This enables the microservices and the infrastructure components things like config server things like
API gateway to talk to each other in this course we'd be using the Finchley M2.
release of spring cloud.
Now let's take a quick look at the challenges which we discussed earlier and the projects in spring cloud
that provide solutions to those challenges.
One of the challenges we talked about earlier was configuration management.
We talked about the fact that there would be multiple microservices multiple environments for each of
these microservices and multiple instances in many of those environments.
This would mean that there is a lot of configuration for these microservices that the operations team
needs to manage.
Spring cloud config server provides an approach where you can store all configuration for all
the different environment of all the microservices in a Git repository.
So you can store all the configuration for different environments of different microservices in just
one place in a centralized location and spring cloud config server can be used to expose that configuration
to all the microservices.
This helps us to keep the configuration in one place and that makes it very easy to maintain the configuration
for all the MicroServices.
The next challenge we talked about was the dynamic scale up and scale down.
In the example you are looking at there is MicroService is called currency calculation service which is
talking to the currency exchange service.
As you can see in the diagram there are multiple instances of the currency exchange service and it's
possible that at any point in time new instances can be added in or removed out.
And we would want the currency calculations that we'd want to be able to distribute the load between all
the instances of the currency exchange service.
Who would want to be able to dynamically check what are the available instances of the currency exchange
service and make sure that the load is distributed among all of them.
The solution which we would be discussing in this course would be using a naming server which is Eureka.
So all the instances of all MicroServices would register with the naming server.
So the naming server has two important features.
One is service registration so all microservices.
Can register  with the microservicew one the second one is service discovery.
So in this example the currency calculation service can ask the Eureka naming server Hey naming server
give me the current instances of currency exchange service and the naming service would provide those
URLs to the currency calculations.
this helps to establish dynamic relationship between the currency calculation service and the instances
of the currency exchange service.
We will use Ribbon for client side load balancing.
That means the currency calculation service  will host ribbon and it would make sure that the load is
evenly distributed among the existing instances that it gets from the naming server we'll also use Feign in
the currency calculation service as a mechanism to write simple RESTful clients the solutions for visibility
and monitoring are the zipkin distributing Tracing Server.
We would use Spring cloud Sloat to assign ID to request across multiple components and we would use
the Zipkin distributed tracing to trace a request across multiple components.
One of the important things about microservices is these microservices have a lot of common features.
For example logging security analytics and things like that you don't want to implement all these common
features in every microservice.
API Gateways provide great solutions to these kind of challenges.
We will use a Netflix Zuel API gateway in this could.
We will also implement fault tolerance using hystrix if a service is down.
Hystrix help us to configure a default response in this video.
We took a quick look at the various components which are present in spring cloud to provide solutions
to the challenges which we discussed earlier.
The idea behind this vedio is to help you get a high level big picture.
If you have a few questions  about what each component that's.
OK.
We'll discuss about each of these components in detail as we dig them one by one in the next steps
in the next week.
until the next video bye.